Two things before you get started today. Number one, pronunciation,
trigger warning everybody. I am absolutely going to ruin some names today.
Enjoy, and number two, this video is like 20 minutes long.
How often do you see stuff like that on YouTube, but not very often.
I will tell you,
and we are able to make these super long videos because of amazing companies.
Like Viero.
If you want to support us and look pretty awesome at the same time,
you need to get hooked up with a Viero watch.
This is the rogue. Uh, I got this last month,
I went for black on black because black on black looks awesome,
but there's also other cool combinations that you can go for. Uh,
lemme just talk a couple of cool things about this watch and why you should buy
one. Number one,
it's a bit of a beast like it's heavy and you might think that's a negative
thing.
I completely disagree. I think a heavy watch is, I don't know.
It just feels good for some reason, this strap, you see this strap,
this isn't some like strap. You gotta thread through you pop that on there.
You clip this on you clip like that. And then you just, you just pop it off.
This is, uh, my other Venter watch this one has a black leather strap.
This isn't perfectly demonstrated.
Cuz what I actually have here is a brown leather strap.
It comes in this cool box like this.
And then what you can do is you can just attach a new strap on there and give
the watch a whole different look.
What I really wanted to say though is because it don't replace it with a leather
strap, get a metal one or a rubber one,
and then you can wear it through the summer heat.
If you've got really sweaty wrists,
like I do supporting sponsors like Viero it really does support me.
And it supports this show. Also you can get 15% off. One of these of iTero
watches.com/biographics and use the code biographics and let's get on with it.
Shall we,
It was not uncommon for political and military leaders of the CEL Turks during
the 11th and 12th century CE to wake up to a surprise,
a der firmly planted on the floor next to their bed, despite the fortres walls,
the bolted doors and the armed somebody had entered their bedroom and left a
note do, as you are told,
or the next time the der will be planted in your chest,
but sometimes no warning was given.
The merciless blade would find its way straight into the heart or the throat
of its target intimidation and targeting killings of high far victims
became their hallmark tactics and they protracted and often desperate fight
against a powerful invader. They became known as the assassins,
the loyal followers and guardians to the founder and leader of their movement,
Hasan sabar
Hassan and his followers emerged in a confusing and a murky period
of political, ethnic, and religious strife in Persia.
And the middle east a period is in which different Muslim factions force each
other and also against the European crusaders. No wonder then the,
the history emerging from that period is shrouded in myth,
legends and propaganda.
So who were the assassins and what was their agenda also?
What was that relationship with the Knight's temper?
Who was the mysterious old man of the mountain? Well,
today I will try to clear these and other questions up by narrating Hassan's
life. But first, how did the assassins legend get started in Europe?
One of the first written accounts about the assassins comes from a French priest
and historian living in, in Syria.
This was William of TA in the early 1180s.
William wrote in the province of TA is a certain people who have 10 castles and
surrounding lands.
And we have often heard that there are 60 thousands of them or more
both we and the Saras call them assassins.
But I don't know where the name comes from.
The Europeans would have to wait until 1298 to learn more about this mysterious
order. That's when TLO Deza published the travels of Marco polo,
the Venetian traveler describes a lands called mul hat where an old man of the
mountain used to live.
The man had built the largest and most beautiful garden in the world.
The three nows streams there, one for water, one Fannie,
one for wine in the garden. There lived boys in maidens.
The most handsome in the world in the garden were admitted.
Only those whom the old man wanted to turn into his assassins.
He drugged them with opium and upon waking up in the garden,
he let them believe that they were experiencing a vision of heaven.
The next time they woke up, the old man had brought them back to the real world,
longing to return to that heaven.
These young men were manipulated to become assassins on behalf of the old man,
only death as a Marty for their cause would grant them a return to the garden of
delights.
Marco polo claims that it was for that reason that the assassins were such
effective kill.
And the old man was so feared that rulers in Asia would pay him a regular
tribute.
The alternative of course was death Polo's account concludes by narrating.
How in 1265, the Lord of the tars allow tired of this wickedness.
He laid siege,
the old man's fortres for three years before starving out the man of the
mountain and all of his assassins.
But how much of Marco Polo's accounts is the truth and how much is legend
or even slander circulated by enemies? Well,
we'll find out right now because now enters the picture Hasan sabar
Hasan sabar was born in the year 10 50 in H in modern day. Iran,
Juan was and still is considered as one of the holiest cities in Shia
Islam and the leading center for Muslim scholarship in Persia,
his father Ali bin Mohammed bin Jafar Albar Almari was originally
Yemeni and belonged to the Twelver tradition of Shia Islam after Hassan's birth,
the S Saar family settled down in Ray where the young Hassan received his early
religious education in accordance to his father's creed. Now,
before he continue, allow me to clarify some religious terms here, for example,
what is the difference between Shia and Sonny Muslims while these two factions
share many spiritual beliefs and religious practices as that sch was actually
political in nature after the death of Muhammad in 632,
his advisor Abu beak became the first call for the successor of the prophet
task with leading the Islamic nation, but his leadership,
it was challenged by the followers of Ali,
the prophet's cousin and his son-in-law.
This action originated the sheer sec to believe that the leadership of the
Islamic nation belongs to the direct descendants of the prophet.
On the other hand,
Sonny Muslims believe that the leadership of the community is not a birthright.
It can, and it must be earned a 12.
A tradition is the mainstream belief among shes.
It is called 12 in reference to the 12 successes of Mohamed.
The last of which Mohamed IBAN Hassan Almadi is yet to return to
become mankind savior. The city of Ray,
where young Hassan lived was at the center of another sheer current, the,
as Israelis, they derived their name from their allegiance to Ismail.
The eldest son of IAM Jafa as Sadiq Israelis are the second largest
denomination within Shia Islam.
And so what differentiates them from other sheer occurrences is that they have a
living hereditary IAM in Ray Hassan was introduced to Thema doctrine
by two prominent dies or missionaries Amira Zab ands abbu ne uh,
SRA.
Following these studies at the age of 17 Hassan converted to Ima and took an
oath of allegiance to the Ima IAM of the time.
The fated Kali Al Angia,
the fat mid dynasty ruled the most powerful Muslim state of the era from their
capital in Cairo,
despite their power FATTOM mids were under constant threat from the CEL tucks.
The CELs were another powerful dynasty originating from central Asia.
From there,
they had swept through Persia and in the middle east establishing a Sonny salt,
eight Aly converted Smail student asanas age 22 had ventured into these
territories managing to impress Abbot Al Malik IBAN Atash,
who was the chief as male lead die in the CEL Salate he impressed him so
much that he actually got a job as a missionary as well in this tele role Hassan
first traveled to the secret Persian Ismaili headquarters in is Fahan in
Persia deep in CEL territory.
He then went to Cairo and Alexandria to perfect his education during his
Egyptian period Hassan, clay Ash, with some big shots in the Smail organization,
one in particular,
the vier or chief minister to the fat mid court Al AAL the conflict
revolved around the succession to the caliphate and by extension to the alate.
In other words, who would be the next leader of the Israelis?
The current CA Al must had appointed as future successor, his eldest son,
the IAM NAZA on the other hand,
VI Al AF was lobbying to install NAZA's younger. Brother must Starley.
This guy also happened to be his son-in-law.
Her son had provided his to NAZA,
which made him an enemy to the powerful VI the outcome of this whole intrigue.
First of all, a further sch within Islam with NAZA Isma. Now,
rivaling must IMAS. Second outcome Hassan was exiled by Al after,
and he returned to Persia in June of 10 81,
but by now he had become the most prominent die for the nascent NAZA community.
Over the following years,
Sam traveled all across Persia spreading word of the NAZA's during this period,
he increased his following and he started drawing up his plans to get rid of the
Sandra occupation of his land.
But what had motivated Heran sabar in revolting against the CELs? Well,
he actually had three different sets of reasons from a religious perspective,
the ardently Sonny CELs did not hide their hostility against sheers of all
secs and the NAZA's and his males may have feared for their own religious
freedom. Politically Hasan still had an allegiance to the Egyptian fat meds,
despite his exile, the CEL spike,
the 10 seventies stretched as far as the Sai threatening to uproot the
caliphate and nationally Hassan's revolt could have been an expression of the
Persian's resentment over the alien rule of thes CEL.
TURs I'm pretty sure that Hassan had never read son Sue yet.
The strategy he formulated, it was pure art of war.
He frankly assessed the weaknesses of his faction and the weaknesses of the
Celtics.
The NAZA were heavily outnumbered while CEL leaders were scattered around the
vast Persian territory.
So how could he multiply the effectiveness of his forces?
How could he deal severe blows to the occupies without St.
Pitch battles on a dispersive territory?
His answer was to quickly occupy the high grounds and establish a series of
impregnable mountain strongholds from which to launch targeted killings of
political and military top brass all around the country. And as you can see,
the assassin creed was beginning to take shape
By 10 87.
Hassan had concentrated his efforts for recruiting a resistance movement around
the Daum region, a traditional sheer stronghold by September of 10 90,
had taken control of the region and had seized the fortres of a mu the teaching
of the Eagle located in the central ELs mountain in the rad bar region. He did.
So by coming and peaceful means converting in secret one by one,
the soldiers of the local Garrison Hassan made the fortres impregnable and made
self sufficient by improving the cultivation and irrigation systems of the Alamo
valley. He also established an important library,
holding a vast collection of manuscripts and scientific instruments after firmly
establishing himself in ER Hassan extended his influence in the region by
winning more converts and expanding his network of fortres in Rud bar in
10 91,
Hassan sent one of his followers is dye Husain quite any to Stan near the border
with modern day Afghanistan,
Huan was successful in starting a popular uprising among local sheers seeking
independence from the Celtics.
This allow the NAZA's to gain control of several towns in star in less than two
years after the capture of Alamo Heran sabar had founded an independent T or
state for the NAZA IMAS in the midst of the CEL sate,
The Persian sheer population of course saw the CEL taxes,
invaders under press sunny sauce begged to differ pointing to the fact that CELs
tried to extend a friendly hand to the locals. Mallek sh for example,
had appointed as his VI,
a Persian abbu Ali Hassan bin Ali bin shark,
better known as NAZA UL, which translates as the order of the country.
According to legend Hassan and naan had been classmates and friends in their
youth after becoming Visia NAZA had helped his old friends by securing him a
post at the court of mal sharp, but soon their rivalry erupted.
And Naar had conspired to have Hassan exalt.
This legend would make Hassan's mission.
One of personal revenge against his childhood friend who had betrayed him as
romantic as the story sounds Naar was 32 years older than Hassan,
and there wasn't any chance they could have been schoolmates.
So what happens next was purely politically motivated in 10 92,
NAZA launched a SEL counter attack against the NAZA's in OOS and queston,
but Hassan's strategy.
It proved effective his small Garrison a to the easily defendable mountain
strongholds was able to repel attack after attack.
During the siege of AMO Assan was,
or to extract safely his wife and daughters to another his smiley community.
He never brought them back,
starting a tradition of not allowing women into the fortres Hasan's next move
was to go on the offensive,
lacking the numbers for a Fullon military campaign Hasan relied on his next
favorite tactic, a targeted killing intended to decapitates CEL leader.
Hasan picked the ADE or faithful who would carry out the mission.
Boo Iran disguised as Aafia Muslim mystic.
The FII approached the litter in which his target was traveling swift and
silent. His dagger left its sheath and it plunged itself into Iran's target.
This was NAZA Al Mor the died on spot,
the same fate Beel to H Iran,
he and the other FIS supremely accepted the facts that their emissions would be
most likely suicidal. The FII was immediately cut down by NAZA's bodyguards.
This was the first high profile assassination carried out by the faithful
soldiers of the NAZA army Hassan and his two immediate successes ordered a total
of 75 tactical killings,
always aimed at high profile targets and never at civilians.
The occupiers would often retaliate with massacres among the Israeli communities
followed by further surgical strikes on Hassan's orders.
Unsurprising in the actions of the fi dies,
earns them the hatred of the CELs and a large part of the Sonny community.
They painted them as radical extremists and pro terrorists.
And at the same time as dissolute drug addicts,
this is when the NAZA FIS became known as Hasian or assassins
the users of hashish.
So let's pause for a moment.
Did the assassins or hash shins actually smoke hashish in reality,
they never used that word to describe themselves.
Their correct description would be the phai of the NAZA is mainly army.
The name. It was stuck on them by Marco polo and William of Ty,
who from the enemies of the NAZA in Syria.
It is true that soldiers across time have made use of recreational and
prescription drugs to get themselves in the right state for battle.
But is a question for you. If you were a son,
would you really trust a stoner with a delicate mission involving climbing
castle walls, picking locks, invading gods, and stabbing a high profile enemy?
And how about them dealing with a munchies? I mean, sure.
All the Stoner's best friends is the Kaba and that was invented by Turk
soldiers, but that wasn't until 1377.
So it's not disputed that the word assassin actually comes from hashish,
but it is now accepted that these highly skilled and trained warriors were not
on drugs.
They simply found themselves stuck with a slur thrown on them by then you
numerous enemies.
And it did not help that the slur was a strong sounding word assassin,
which was quickly adopted by popular European poets in the 13th and 14th
centuries. One being Dante, the author of the divine comedy,
but enough with the word of the day,
let's get down to business to defeat the tur
Shortly after the assassination of Nizam Al mul,
the SEL Salton Malik sh also died. The causes remain mysterious.
Maybe they were natural, or maybe he was poisoned. As a result.
The sate was plunged into chaos and a civil war between Malik, eldest,
son Burkey,
and his brother Sonja supported by their half brother Mohamed Tepa took
place. The state was further fractured by the emergence of independent wars,
taking advantage of the disorder,
Hassan consolidated and extended his power seizing more strategically located
fortress extending as far as dam gun 500 kilometers to the east of the Alamo
headquarters,
or even to KU Astan a thousand kilometers to the south Hassan.
He was unstoppable during this period.
He consolidated his reputation as an Auste and aesthetic leader in a short span
of time.
We don't know exactly when he had both of his sons executed Mohamed was guilty
of drinking wine. While AAD was a suspect in the death of Hassan's loyal,
left tenant Husain ke the Nazari leader personally turned inwards,
but politically he sought expansion.
It is said that he never again left his castle,
but in the early years of the 12th century,
Asan began sending his dies from Alamo in Des Syria here in the NAZA's
resumed their practice of establishing mountain strongholds.
The most important one was the mass fortres years later Macia would be under
the commands of Rasht at D he achieved fame due to his numerous attempts to
assassinate Saladin.
And it was he not a son who gave rise to the legend of the old man of the
mounts. And it was them,
the Syrian assassins who would first make contact with the temp.
I will take a quick detour now to cover the relationship between these two
groups. Even if it's outta the scope of Hassan's life,
a certain media franchises painted these two as mortal rivals through the
ages and across continents. These two factions had much in common though.
If you think about it,
both were a core of elite warriors motivated by both a political and a
religious drive.
Both would be at some point slandered and accused of being heretics by powerful
enemies. The tension between assassins and temples in,
in the LA van saw the holy lands, never escalated into a full clash.
There were some hostilities, but the two,
sometimes they were allies as the Syrian NAZA were more interested in fighting
other Muslim enemies rather than the Christians from 1152,
they interacted almost like mob cartels with assigned territories,
wary of stepping too much on each other's toes in year.
The fi days had claimed one of their few Christian victims count Raymond of
triple E in reparation.
The Templar in Lebanon demanded a tribute of 2000 BES a year.
Sounds a bit like protection money. Doesn't it. On another occasion,
it was the Syrian assassin who demanded protection money from none other than
king Louis, the ninth, the France, when he was visiting AKA in modern day,
Israel, if the king page, the old man of the mountain would let him live.
Grand's master joined Villa of the tempo intervened and sent the ENVO back home
empty handed with a nonaggression package between the king and the old man.
But off we threw an in video games. Let's get back to her son, shall we?
In 10 97,
the IAM NAZA spiritual leader to his son and his men was killed in
Cairo.
His rival VI Al Al had buried him alive between two walls.
When the news reached his son,
he sent for NAZA's young son to be rescued from Cairo and to be brought to
safety a mu until now, Hassan sabar had been the political ends,
military leader of the NAZA and Persia from now on,
in the absence of a manifesting mom,
he would serve also as the religious leader of the whole NAZA community.
In the last years of the 11th century,
Hassan launched an offensive on the heart of the CEL.
Salate the objective was the fortres of close to the capital of if
Ahan his agent for the operation was AMA bin attached.
The son of AANS first teacher after he had become, and his mainly,
but AMA did not use the dagger only as faith. One by one,
he converted the children and then the soldiers of the Garrison by 1100,
a Martin, the NAZA's had successfully infiltrated and occupied the castle.
And with that, the road to Ferhan was open,
but eventually the Nazari did not achieve victory,
at least not a total one. In the meantime, the Warings CEL brothers Burkey,
San and Mohamed DEPA had agreed to a truce in order to combat Heran.
The newly United Celtics fought back and secured is Fahan the Nazari retaliated
with more assassinations,
which were followed by massacres of Nazari civilians in 1105 to
par became the Salton four years later, he launched a second siege.
Val Moi go to close Asari nuisance once. And for all that,
the heads of his army was AMA Al the son of the Viza,
who was assassinated in 10 92. But once again,
AMO held on by assault or Tian AMO. He would not fall
The ongoing war or had reached a Stal mate by the time of Moham to PA's death in
1118, the NAZA's were still successfully defending important,
albeit scattered territories, which amounted to an independent Nazari state,
but a total victory and conquest of Persia from the hands of the CEL.
It was outta the question in these years of STAM mate,
her son withdrew even more from the side world spending most of his time inside
his personal quarters at AUT reading books,
committing the teachings of his doctrine to writing and administering the
affairs of his realm in 1124,
age 74 Hassan sense that he was reaching the end of his life.
He summoned ki Bazo Omid,
a trusted left tenants from the Laar fortres and designated him as his success
or in AU Hasan ever died after a brief illness on the 12th of June, 1124,
and was buried near AU.
The fortres that had been his home and the symbol of his power for so many
years, the Nazari for dies or assassins.
If you like continued to harass the Celtics and other fo in Persia for the
following 100 years,
NAZA worshipers regularly visited Assan Moza Liam until a new unstoppable enemy
swept through central Asia and Persia. And that was the Mongols in 1256,
they laid the final siege to AMO the proud fortres.
The teaching of the Eagle eventually fell and was demolished the assassins.
They remained active in Syria,
but their legends had come to an end in the place that had been their first
home. So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up bottom below. Also at this video really long,
super complicated pronunciations. I really did my best.
There were a lot of difficult ones in there.
This took me a long time to make support what I'm doing, support this channel,
get a vier watch. This is the rogue. This is a great one.
I'd recommend that get 15% off through the link below,
use the code biographics it would be awesome of you. Thanks for watching.
And I'll see you next time.